We expect to be connected every moment of our lives. As a result the world around us has been flooded with wireless access points, scattered throughout the city’s coffee shops, restaurants, and cafes. Wi-Fi is also, increasingly, being added to moving vehicles; in Glasgow this is most commonly seen on buses.

There are a number of established areas where Wi-Fi access points are used to provide important services. Hybrid positioning is the most widely used and yet the most uncommonly known use of Wi-Fi. Every device that provides apps with a position, whether it is to pin a photo to a map in Instagram or check-in to a venue via Facebook, uses Wi-Fi to assist the device's GPS to provide a more accurate location.

Wi-Fi has also been used to underpin location based games. Using Wi-Fi as a resource game elements can be mapped on top of the know locations of Wi-Fi and the characteristics of that specific node. One such game developed here at the University of Glasgow is Feeding Yoshi. This game made open Wi-Fi access points (insecure) creatures called Yohsi’s and closed Wi-Fi access points (secure) areas to grow food for those creatures called plantations. The game mechanism was a simple fetch and carry mechanic with players shuttling between plantations and Yoshis, feeding Yoshis fruit, to gain points.

For this challenge, we are supplying you with a snapshot of Wi-Fi data for Glasgow. This data includes, SSID, BSSID, Security, and location (Lat, Lon). The challenge is to explore the use of this data to create novel applications based on information about Wi-Fi that solve real world problems. Perhaps you want to have your Wi-Fi move to experiment with new positioning systems based on Wi-Fi on public transport or you may wish to correlate Wi-Fi location with other city information, such as energy to explore trends between fuel poverty and connectedness, or augment the existing dataset with additional information, or collect data on new access points.

Anything that leverages the data set and answers a real world need is valid for this challenge. It should have a novel slant or be completely new however, be sure you know who your audience is and what gap they are facing. Good luck!
